You guys in the last video we went ahead and installed and set up WordPress now we're going to do is
we're going to start to create our theme files and enable the theme.
All right so what we're going to do is amusing Sublime Text.
And we're going to add my project folder so that we can access the files easily.
We're going to go to see my C-Drive amps UWW and W.P. themes.
All right.
And then the folder that you want to create your Femen is going to be in W.P. content and then themes
.
OK you can see we have the three themes that come with wordpress already installed.
All right so what we're going to do is create a new folder and we're going to call this simple.
That's going to be the name of our theme.
Now there's two files that you absolutely need in order to enable your theme.
So one is going to be styled Daut to see SS and then the other one is going to be index dot ph P.
OK.
Now the reason we need style CSSA is because that's where all of our declarations go.
So the theme name the description things like that.
So what we can do is open up a common block just like that.
And then we can put in some fields actually let me pull up the documentation here
.
OK.
So this here includes all of the different fields that you can use.
OK so we're not going to use all of these.
They're not all required.
I'm pretty sure the theme name is all that's required but it's good to have some other information as
well.
So let's a theme name.
And we're going to call it simple.
OK we're also going to have an author
and you can put your own name there if you'd like.
We'll have an offer to you are I.
So if you're creating themes for clients you probably want to put your company website where we can
have a description.
They will say a very simple WordPress theme and let's do version 1.0.
All right.
So let's go ahead and save that.
Now just having this is going to allow WordPress to see your theme if we go back to our back end and
we go to appearance and then themes you'll see that our simple theme is is here and we can actually
activate it now in order for a screenshot to show up here you need to put an image in the root of your
theme folder and call it screenshot.
Dot P N G.
All right so I've included a sample screenshot in your files which I have here on my desktop which is
just a quick Photoshop image that I created that just says simple theme.
All right.
So let's go ahead and I'm going to cut that and I'm going to put that in our theme folder.
So I'm going to go to my server root.
Go to W.P. themes repeat content themes and then simple and was going to paste that in there.
Right.
And then if we go back to the back end in reload now you can see that we have a screenshot.
Well it's not really a screenshot but it's an image.
All right.
Now if we go ahead and activate our theme go to our front end reload we get absolutely nothing because
we haven't added any code.
Our theme just contains nothing it's completely blank.
All right.
Now if I was to go and go in our index ph P and say test save reload see we get test OK.
So it's reading our index P2P file by default.
Now what we want to do is start to create our HDMI structure.
So let's put in some just core each team old tags we have our doctype we have in each team our tag head
tags body tags and we have title tags.
Now first thing we're going to do starting at the top is our HTL tag sometimes you want to include a
language here and WordPress has a function that we can actually include here to make this dynamic so
we can do ph the language attributes which is a function and that will determine the language that we
want the theme to display.
All right now in the title you probably want this to be dynamic you probably want it to have your site
name and so on.
So what we can do is we can save THP and we can use a function called blog info.
And this is really useful because it has a bunch of things that you can get such as the site name the
description the character set.
You are Ell's and the list goes on.
You can actually look at the documentation to see exactly what it includes.
But what we're going to use is name.
OK so if we save that and we go back and reload you look in the title it says WordPress dev if you remember
that's what we call the site.
All right so it's going to display the name.
So let's go back to our head tag and continue.
OK we're going to want a character set.
So we're going to say Metta
char sat and then we can use blog info here as well to say blog info and then just pass and char set
her right.
And then if we save that and we go and look at our source code doing it using control you you can look
at both the language attributes says we're using English us and the character set is UTF 8.
OK.
So those things can now be controlled from within WordPress.
So the next thing I want to do is I want to include our stylesheet.
OK so we have this style CSSA file we actually need it but if we go in and let's say we really say body
background black we save that and we reload.
We're not getting a black background.
It's not being read.
So in order for that style sheet to be seen or going to say link raúl style sheet and then for the H
ref what we're going to do is we're going to say ph P blog info.
And in here we want to say style underscore you are.
All right and that's going to get it from the correct location.
So let's save that reload and now we see a black background.
OK so whatever we put in our style sheet is now going to register.
Now the last thing that I want to put in the head tag is a function call W.P. underscore head.
Right.
And what that does is that puts any additional information that is needed into the head.
So when you install a plug in and let's say it needs to include a stylesheet or need to do something
in the head.
This is where it'll come out.
OK so when you when they create plug ins you can have stuff pop out right in the head.
All right.
So if we look at the source code here you'll see that we have a bunch of other stuff now and this is
all coming from that W.P. head.
If I go ahead and take that out and go back and reload it just gives us just what we have here.
All right so you're going to need that W.P. head.
So that part of the template is done in the next video we're going to start to build out the body.
I'll show you how to grab posts to create menus and so on.
All right so I'll see you in the next video